





After centuries of foreign oppression, exploitation, and humiliation, we were finally reclaiming our rightful place as humanity's middle kingdom.
Again, they told me no one. I knew this could not be true.
All showed similar symptoms, all had similar wounds on various parts of their bodies.
Although I hypothesized this to be the source of the infection, the actual injury was surprisingly clean.
As I examined it more closely, I realized that it wasn't from an animal.
Barely coherent, she whimpered slightly when I tried to move her limbs.
He told me it had happened when they had tried to subdue "him."
I asked one man, the most lucid of the group, who or what had inflicted these injuries.
I asked the villagers, again, who had been taking care of these people.
I asked the villagers who had been taking care of these people.
I became lost several times and had to ask directions from locals who kept thinking I meant the museum town.
I examined the six other patients.
If no one had cleaned this woman's wound, why wasn't it throbbing with infection?
I guess I'm still an old revolutionary at heart.
I had a devil of a time finding the place.
I noticed that the door had been locked from the outside.
I personally didn't know that this other New Dachang existed, so you can imagine how confused I was when the call came in.
I remember thinking, This had better be damned serious.
It must have been a heartbreaking irony for those poor peasants, to see their town saved but then only being able to visit it as a tourist.
It was an emergency, that part was obvious, and could we please send help at once.
It was the dawn of what the world was finally acknowledging as "The Chinese Century" and yet so many of us still lived like these ignorant peasants, as stagnant and superstitious as the earliest Yangshao savages.
I was in an impatient mood by the time I reached the small collection of hilltop homes.
I was on my way out to smoke a cigarette and watch the dawn when I heard my name being paged.
I was still lost in my grand, cultural criticism when I knelt to examine the first patient.
I was tired, my back and feet ached.
Maybe that is why some of them chose to name their newly constructed hamlet "New Dachang" to preserve some connection to their heritage, even if it was only in name.
Motorcycles were becoming very popular.
Of course they're sick, I thought.
Officially, it didn't exist and therefore wasn't on any map.
Once I saw their faces, I regretted my wish.
"Our duty is to hold ourselves responsible to the people."
She was running a high fever, forty degrees centigrade, and she was shivering violently.
That's why I was so grateful for a quiet shift.
The air was cold and damp.
The bite radius and teeth marks had to have come from a small, or possibly young, human being.
The first outbreak I saw was in a remote village that officially had no name.
The hospital was quiet; it had been a slow night, even for the increasing number of drunk-driving accidents.
The human mouth is packed with bacteria, even more so than the most unhygienic dog.
Their behavior made me angry, not at them, you understand, not as individuals, but what they represented about our country.
Their former home, "Old Dachang," had stood since the period of the Three Kingdoms, with farms and houses and even trees said to be centuries old.
The receptionist that night was new and couldn't quite understand the dialect.
There had been an accident, or an illness.
The residents called it "New Dachang," but this was more out of nostalgia than anything else.
There was a wound in her right forearm, a bite mark.
There were seven of them, all on cots, all barely conscious.
The villagers had moved them into their new communal meeting hall.
The villagers were clearly terrified.
The walls and floor were bare cement.
They cringed and whispered; some kept their distance and prayed.
The younger doctors, the kids who think medicine is just a way to pad their bank accounts, they certainly weren't going to go help some "nongmin" just for the sake of helping.
They said no one, it wasn't "safe."
This New Dachang, however, was not a town anymore, but a "national historic museum."
Those words still mean something to me...and I tried to remember that as my Deer bounced and banged over dirt roads the government had promised but never quite gotten around to paving.
We used to say that your Harley-Davidsons killed more young Chinese than all the GIs in the Korean War.
We were the world's richest and most dynamic superpower, masters of everything from outer space to cyber space.
What could I say?
When the Three Gorges Dam was completed, and reservoir waters began to rise, much of Dachang had been disassembled, brick by brick, then rebuilt on higher ground.
